= Db_Officer
DB_officer is a rails gem for developer to create, update , delete and view database table using web interface. It is  a database management library.

The main features of this gem are as follows:
- Provides web interface that list all the tables in the application.
- Can view table structure
- Create table by generating and running rails migration script
- Alter table by generating and running rails migration script
  - Rename table
  - Rename column
  - Add column
  - Delete column
  - Edit column data type
- Delete table by generating and running rails migration script

= Purpose
To help rails developer handle database administration tasks within the application through a user friendly web interface.

= Installing
In your rails application,
**Step1:** Add following to your Gemfile
       gem `db_officer`
**Step2:** In routes.rb
       mount DbOfficer::Engine, at: "/db_officer"

* Note: '/db_officer' could be any desired name for the application. *

**Step3:** View all your database information by going to this url:
http://localhost:3000/db_officer.

= Future Enhancement
We have divided this gem into three different phase. With this release phase 1 (which focus on database data definition language) is completed. We will deliver following features in other two phases:

Phase 2: Work on data manipulation language
- View table data
- Edit table data
- Delete table data
- Export data in csv
- Search data
- Filter by column name
- Truncate table

Phase 3:
- Indexing
- Constraints
- Table Comments
- Auto increments
- SQL query
- and many more to come

= Help:
Feel free to reach at me at anantalamichhane1@gmail.com for help regarding db_officer.

= Contributing:
Db_officer is free and open source rails gem. I encourage and support an active, healthy community that accepts contributions from the public.
Make sure that you are contributing to any of the following:
- reportings bugs
- requesting new features
- preparing your code for a pull request
- writing documentation
- writing specs
- refactoring code
- reviewing pull requests
- verifying issue
- writing code for future enhancements.

We look forward to seeing your pull requests!


= License
**db_officer** is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
**db_officer** is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details http://www.gnu.org/licenses.

